Genetic engineering has expanded the genes available to breeders to use in creating desired germlines for new crops .
The name Jadgal applies specifically to groups that still speak the Jadgali language , in the Makran region of Iran and Pakistan .
Wikipedia is free content that anyone can edit and distribute .
The print collection are further supported by extensive microform holdings .
In 1991 , the Soviet Union broke apart and Armenia reorganised its independence .
An electron microscope is a type of microscope that uses a particle beam of electrons to illuminate a specimen and create a highly-magnified image .
This is known as the geocentric model of the Universe .
It was founded in the 16th century by Genoese colonists , who used large numbers of workmen -LRB- Calfats -RRB- in repairing ships .
Much of the Enlightenment happened in French social circles , and major scientific breakthroughs were achieved by French scientists in the 18th century .
Every rhombus is a parallelogram , and a rhombus with right angles is a square .
The population of Afghanistan is divided into a wide variety of ethnic groups of which Tajik , Pashtun , Hazara , Uzbek and Baloch .
The official language of Argentina is Spanish , usually called castellano -LRB- Castilian -RRB- by Argentines .
It is the fifth largest country by geographic area .
She has an older brother , Chad , and a twin brother who is 12 minutes younger than she is .
The judge ordered that Chapman should get psychiatric treatment in prison and sentenced him to twenty years to life , slightly less than the maximum possible of eighteen years to life .
A period of rapidly more powerful and flexible computing devices were constructed in the 1930s and 1940s .
Since then they have changed their name to Palladium and played alongside Amy Winehouse .
A boot is a type of clothing that covers at least the foot and the knee and sometimes extends up to the knee or even the hip .
During the war , Iraq used chemical weapons against Iranian forces fighting on the southern front and Kurdish separatists who were trying to open up a northern front in Iraq with the help of Iran .
November is the twelfth and last month of the year in the Gregorian Calendar and one of seven Gregorian months with the length of 31 days .
A naval mine is a self-contained device placed in water to destroy ships or submarines .
The penetrating partner stands , and the receiving partner wraps their arms around his neck , and their legs around his waist , thus exposing either the vagina or anus to the man 's penis .
He is also famous for his work in mechanics , fluid dynamics , optics , and astronomy .
The eruption causes deaths of cattle when they eat contaminated grass and also widespread crop failure .
An umbrella term is a word that provides a superset or grouping of related concepts , also called a hypernym .
In 1940 Ellis became a member of MAUD who were trying to develop new weapons .
The female often has a tail along the spine and dark sides while the male may have blue spots dorsally .
The combination of new weapons and tactics have caused many historians to consider this battle the beginning of the end of chivalry .
The caper story is distinguished from the straight crime story by elements of humor , adventure , or unusual cleverness or audacity .
This travels a huge distance in its orbit around the sun , at a speed of around 30 km/s or over 108000 km per hour .
In computing , a protocol is a set of rules which is used by computers to communicate with each other across a network .
It is a transportation , commercial , and manufacturing centre .
Residential building codes will typically allow for steeper stairs than public building codes .
Approximately 24 % Australians over the age of 15 regularly participate in organized sporting activities in Australia .
Egypt is famous for its ancient civilization and some of the world 's most famous monuments , including the Giza pyramid and its Great Sphinx .
In 1973 , Patrick White was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature , the only Australian to have achieved this .
During the Second World War , Turing was a main participant in the efforts at Bletchley Park to break German ciphers .
The Union commanders then ordered another charge with a regiment that reinforced the Union infantry .
In archaeology , an artifact or artefact is any object made or modified by a human culture , and often one later recovered by some archaeological endeavor .
He gives Lulu a katana , and orders her to kill herself , but when the Schoolboy comes out from under the table he is distracted and she shoots Schön instead .
An eclipse is an astronomical event that occurs when one celestial object moves into the shadow of another .
The London journeys In 1790 , Prince Nikolaus died and was succeeded by a thoroughly king who dismissed the entire musical party and put Haydn on a pension .
Because of the importance in the community , mosques are used for preaching peaceful co-existence with non-believers , even in times of adversity .
The episodes ran 35 minutes , and episodes were very often edited to a standard half-hour running time when repeated on the BBC or satellite channels .
The high annual rainfall has eroded deep valleys in the central mountains , sculptures out canyons with many waterfalls .
The river flows through tropical rainforest .
The third form of rock material found on Earth is metamorphic rock , which is created from the transformation of pre-existing rock types through high pressures , high temperatures , or both .
For all structures the prominence height is given , so the height of towers may differ from the values at List of towers .
The event is one of the most popular spectator events in Australia , with sometimes over 110,000 people , some dressed in traditional formal raceday wear and others in all manner of exotic and amusing costumes , attending the race .
According to some , before attaining divinity , he was a Chinese nun of the Sung dynasty and a reincarnation of the Taoist god Hsuan-Wu .
In these shows , he wrote his experiences of his visits to the United States and Brazil , with anecdotes and witticisms about the culture , lifestyle and beauty of these places .
After making strong convection and tropical storm-force sustained winds , it failed to develop a low-level circulation until July 20 .
Quizzes are also brief assessments used in education and similar fields to measure growth in knowledge , abilities , or skills .
In 1527 it fell into the hands of the Révay family , who stopped the town privileges of Mošovce for almost 400 years .
This includes has data across multiple disks , but the array is seen by the computer user and operating system as one single disk .
By the late 1970s , many products such as video recorders contain dedicated computers called microcontrollers , and they started to appear as a replacement to mechanical controls in domestic appliances such as toilet machines .
The 80 cell prison was built in the shape of a cross with radial exercise rope around a central hall and chapel .
However , it was not until the threat of invasion by the forces of Spain in 1585 that lieutenants were appointed to all counties and counties and became in effect permanent .
The average sleep requirement is between seven and seven continuous hours a day for an adult and seven to ten hours for a child ; elderly people usually sleep for six to six hours .
In traditional mosques , this function is often elaborated into a freestanding building in the center of a courtyard .
Here , simulations of evolution using evolutionary algorithms and artificial life started with the work of Nils Aall Barricelli in the 1960s , and was extended by Alex Fraser , who published a series of papers on simulation of artificial selection .
By eschewing direct action in favour of influencing popular opinion , Madison tried to make clear that the Democratic-Republicans were not moving toward disunion .
The tramcar was rebuilt at a cost of # 150,000 but will not be allowed to be re-tested until at least November 2008 as testing is not allowed during the outside summer months and because of the previous closure of the tracks for repairs .
However , it restricted the president to one seven-year term , and Chun did not attempt to amend the document so he could run for reelection in 1987 .
In the early days of settlement , Singapore was the recipient of Indian convicts , who were tasked with clearing the jungles for settlement and early public works .
In addition , the protein in raw eggs is only 51 % bio-available , whereas that of a cooked egg is nearer 91 % bio-available , meaning the protein of cooked eggs is nearly twice as absorbable as the protein from raw eggs .
It is shown in the second episode that he is the current incarnation of the Avatar , the spirit of the planet manifested in human form .
In this period , women would also often give knights and warriors gifts that included basil leaves as it was believed to bring courage to the badge .
These banana shoots produce fibers of different degrees of softness , yielding yarns and textiles with different qualities for specific uses .
His works were some of the finest organ pieces to come from France in over a century , and laid the groundwork for the French melodic organ style .
co-written albums and hit singles , and writes and produces songs for many of his label housemates and outside artists as well .
The term was coined by Thomas Henry Huxley in April 1860 .
Infants with this disease seem healthy at birth but if left untreated suffer serious brain damage , and eventually die .
At the end of Annius and the guard Publius arrive to escort Vitellia to Titus , who has now chosen her as his empress .
After the death of her husband in 1831 , she tried to find employment at the opera in Stockholm , but was not a job .
MacMillan gave lessons on each of the seven symphonies of Beethoven which were followed by a performance of the symphony in piano duet music by MacMillan and Dale .
Many consider the flavor to be very agreeable , but it is generally bitter if steeped in boiling water , so it is made using hot but not boiling water .
By 1928 , the regional government was moved from the old Cossack capital Novocherkassk to Rostov .
Deomyines share no morphological characteristics that can be used to separate them from other muroids .
For example , in information theory , a signal is a codified message , that is , the sequence of states in a communication channel that encodes a message .
As a result , the rest of the Muslim community is responsible for providing the participants with food , drink , and whatever else they need during their stay .
Eleven players were added into the category , but in 2000 the board of directors eliminated it and those inductees are now considered to be in the player category .
He died on November 9 , 1875 , and in 1877 his widow left # 6000 to the University of Sydney as a memorial of him , which was used to found the William Hilton Hovell lectureship on geology and physical geography .
Of course , all theories , including those called scientific laws , can always be replaced by more accurate , empirical statements if a disagreement of theory with observed data is ever found .
A typical great hall was a rectangular room between one and a half and three times as long as it was wide , and also higher than it was wide .
As much more resistant to cold and wet weather conditions , brick changed the construction of permanent buildings in regions where the harsher climate precluded the use of mud bricks .
As much more resistant to cold and wet weather conditions , brick changed the construction of permanent buildings in regions where the harsher climate precluded the use of mud bricks .
The components are generally distributed together , have a consistent user interface and usually can interact with each other , sometimes in ways that the operating system would not normally allow .
Instead of finishing in London , the 2007 race started in London and finished in Glasgow , which used the event to renewable its bid to host the 2014 Commonwealth Games .
Most miscarriages occur very early in pregnancy , in most cases , they occur so early in the pregnancy that the woman is not even aware that she was pregnant .
When the biological significance of nicotinic acid was realized , it was thought , so from dissociate it from nicotine , in order to avoid the perception that vitamins or niacin-rich food contain nicotine , or that cigarettes contain vitamins .
Another , more romantic legend tells a story of a Tatar princess Söyembikä , who dropped a golden dish -LRB- golden qazan -RRB- in to the river on which the city is located while washing it .
For example , a shop might give away its stock in its promotion , but producing these goods would still have required the use of scarce resources , so this would not be a free good in an economic sense .
Computers using vacuum tubes as their electronic elements were in use throughout the 1950s , but by the 1960s had been largely replaced by transistor-based machines , which were smaller , faster , expensive to produce , required less power , and were more reliable .
It is therefore pointless to e-mail your contact addresses asking for permission to reproduce articles or images , even if rules at your company or school or organization agreement that you ask web site operators before making their content .
Sustainability is an issue of major transcendence in the contemporary world , which needs to find new options for economic , social , and cultural development .
It worked out for both parties involved , however , as the show did better in the ratings than it had on Thursdays , while UPN received much better ratings on Fridays than it did before , with its movie night .
When overseas it is common for their passport to be blamed by the trafficker and to be warned of the consequences should they attempt to escape , including beatings , rape , threats of violence against their family and death threats .
This is a thin layer of relatively solid mantle , a thin layer of relatively solid mantle , a liquid outer core that generates a magnetic field , and a solid iron inner core .
These letters usually coincide with the German districts , in few cases an urban district and the surrounding non-urban district share the same letter code .
